So let's explain it,
now it's time to work on the logic
I want to execute
if we do get back the weatherData. Now, I will get back some data here and I will parse it into JSON
because I will get back a string and I know that this service here will send me back
JSON data which looks like this
and I know this because the documentation tells me that I will get back data in this format,
however as I said, as a string. Now I won't work with a string,
I want to work with Javascript object, therefore I'm parsing this string with JSON.parse
into a Javascript object,
so I will parse my responseText the string into a Javascript object here.
Now with that, I could access all the data and so on
but hey why have we learned object oriented programming with Javascript if not to use it now?
So I will actually create a new file here and I'll name it weather-data.js. I'll import this
file between init and app, so
source is weather-data.js and in this file,
I'll set up a constructor function for my weatherData. So I'll use strict mode here too and then I'll
create a new function named Weather with a capital W
since this should be a constructor function and I want to indicate this by having a capital W at the beginning,
this will
take a city name and a description and in here, I'll set up some properties, so my city name will be the
city name I pass into this constructor function and the description should be the description.
Now city name and description, city name is clear, description however, if
we have a look at the data we get back from our weather service, will be this part here, description broken
clouds for example,
so I want to retrieve this weather description here.
I also want to retrieve the temperature later on, the temperature of course is also available here,
we can find it in the main field here and here, we will have the temperature. Now in this service,
you can also control if you want to get our temperature or any formats, in the American format or
in the metric format, so if we have for example temperature in Fahrenheit or in Celsius and
the default is Kelvin indeed and we can change this. Now I will later on change it to get it back in
metric format but I'm only doing this so that I can then convert it to Fahrenheit in my app.
Now of course, that doesn't make the most sense but consider a service where you don't have the choice
and you would have to do it on your own and I want to show this.
Now in order to do this, I'll add a third field here,
this._description and I'm just using the underscore here to indicate that this is kind of
a private field,
it's not set upon creating this weather object, it's not passed in a constructor here,
it's not passed as an argument.
We set it up and we set it to an empty string
but yes, it's not initialized here.
The reason for this is that I want to create a getter and a setter for this field to make sure that
whenever I pass a value to this field, it is converted to Fahrenheit,
since as I said, I will retrieve the metric version in Celsius.
For this to work, I'll use the Object.defineProperty method here and I'll access my Weather.prototype,
I'll add it to my weather prototype, temperature should be the name of the property I want to define
and of course this should be _temperature here as well.
So this _temperature, this is just temperature,
this will be the field we actually access and then in the background, it will access and change this
field and as a third argument,
I will configure this property here with a Javascript object. How do I configure it?
I provide a get function and whenever I want to get this, I will simply return this temperature
but if I want to set it, that's the interesting part,
this will also be a function, I will not just pass the value I get here
but instead, I will set this temperature equal to be equal to value times
1.8 plus 32,
that happens to be the conversion formula from Celsius to Fahrenheit and then set it toFixed to round it
to two decimal places and prevent any possible floating point errors
and then I'll attach the F. at the end to indicate the unit.
So with this setter, I'm making sure that no matter what I pass here, it will be converted to Fahrenheit
all the time and as I explained of course with this service, you could fetch it in Fahrenheit in the
first place but I think you get my point. So that is the weather constructor I prepared
and with that in the next step, I'll actually use that to create a new weather object and use all those
fields to store the data
I get back from my service.